README.rst, before:

.. raw:: html

   <h1>Himalaya: Multiple-target linear models</h1>

``Himalaya`` implements machine learning linear models in Python, focusing on
computational efficiency for large numbers of targets.

|Github| |Python| |License|

Use ``himalaya`` if you need a library that:

- estimates linear models on large numbers of targets,
- runs on CPU and GPU hardware,
- provides estimators compatible with ``scikit-learn``'s API.

Example
=======

.. code-block:: python

    import numpy as np
    n_samples, n_features, n_targets = 10, 5, 4
    np.random.seed(0)
    X = np.random.randn(n_samples, n_features)
    Y = np.random.randn(n_samples, n_targets)

    from himalaya.ridge import RidgeCV
    model = RidgeCV(alphas=[1, 10, 100])
    model.fit(X, Y)
    print(model.best_alphas_)  # [ 10. 100.  10. 100.]


- The model ``RidgeCV`` uses the same API as ``scikit-learn``
  estimators, with methods such as ``fit``, ``predict``, ``score``, etc.
- The model is able to efficiently fit a large number of targets (routinely
  used with 100k targets).
- The model selects the best hyperparameter ``alpha`` for each target
  independently.


Check more examples of use of ``himalaya`` in the gallery of examples.

Models
======

``Himalaya`` implements the following models:

- Ridge
- RidgeCV
- GroupRidgeCV
- KernelRidge
- KernelRidgeCV
- WeightedKernelRidge
- MultipleKernelRidgeCV
- SparseGroupLassoCV

Himalaya backends
=================

``Himalaya`` can be used seamlessly with different backends.
The available backends are ``numpy`` (default), ``cupy``, and ``pytorch``.
To change the backend (e.g. to ``cupy``), call:

.. code-block:: python

    from himalaya.backend import set_backend
    backend = set_backend("cupy")


and give ``cupy`` arrays inputs to the ``himalaya`` solvers. For convenience,
estimators implementing ``scikit-learn``'s API can cast arrays to the correct
input type.

GPU acceleration
----------------

To run ``himalaya`` on a graphics processing unit (GPU), you can use both
``cupy`` or ``pytorch`` backends.

To use the ``cupy`` backend, call:

.. code-block:: python

    from himalaya.backend import set_backend
    backend = set_backend("cupy")

    data = backend.asarray(data)


To use the ``pytorch`` backend, call:

.. code-block:: python

    from himalaya.backend import set_backend
    backend = set_backend("torch_cuda")
    # "torch" uses pytorch on CPU, "torch_cuda" uses pytorch on GPU

    data = backend.asarray(data)


Installation
============

Dependencies
------------

``Himalaya`` requires:

- Python 3
- Numpy
- Scikit-learn
- PyTorch (optional GPU backend) (1.9+ preferred)
- Cupy (optional GPU backend)
- Matplotlib (optional, for visualization only)
- Pytest (optional, for testing only)


Standard installation
---------------------
You may install the latest version of ``himalaya`` using the package manager
``pip``, which will automatically download ``himalaya`` from the Python Package
Index (PyPI):

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install himalaya


Installation from source
------------------------

To install ``himalaya`` from the latest source (``main`` branch), you may
call:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install git+https://github.com/gallantlab/himalaya.git


Developers can also install ``himalaya`` in editable mode via:

.. code-block:: bash

    git clone https://github.com/gallantlab/himalaya
    cd himalaya
    pip install --editable .


.. |Github| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/github-himalaya-blue
   :target: https://github.com/gallantlab/himalaya

.. |Python| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.7%2B-blue
   :target: https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-370

.. |License| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-BSD%203--Clause-blue.svg
   :target: https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause


Cite this package
=================

If you use ``himalaya`` in your work, please cite our (future) publication:

.. [1] Dupré La Tour, T., Eickenberg, M., & Gallant, J. L. (2021).
	Variance decomposition with banded ridge regression. *In preparation*.

Commit message:

DOC mention that the package is stable

README.rst, after:

.. raw:: html

   <h1>Himalaya: Multiple-target linear models</h1>

``Himalaya`` implements machine learning linear models in Python, focusing on
computational efficiency for large numbers of targets. It is stable (with
particular care for backward compatibility) and open for public use (give it a
star!).

|Github| |Python| |License|

Use ``himalaya`` if you need a library that:

- estimates linear models on large numbers of targets,
- runs on CPU and GPU hardware,
- provides estimators compatible with ``scikit-learn``'s API.

Example
=======

.. code-block:: python

    import numpy as np
    n_samples, n_features, n_targets = 10, 5, 4
    np.random.seed(0)
    X = np.random.randn(n_samples, n_features)
    Y = np.random.randn(n_samples, n_targets)

    from himalaya.ridge import RidgeCV
    model = RidgeCV(alphas=[1, 10, 100])
    model.fit(X, Y)
    print(model.best_alphas_)  # [ 10. 100.  10. 100.]


- The model ``RidgeCV`` uses the same API as ``scikit-learn``
  estimators, with methods such as ``fit``, ``predict``, ``score``, etc.
- The model is able to efficiently fit a large number of targets (routinely
  used with 100k targets).
- The model selects the best hyperparameter ``alpha`` for each target
  independently.


Check more examples of use of ``himalaya`` in the gallery of examples.

Models
======

``Himalaya`` implements the following models:

- Ridge
- RidgeCV
- GroupRidgeCV
- KernelRidge
- KernelRidgeCV
- WeightedKernelRidge
- MultipleKernelRidgeCV
- SparseGroupLassoCV

Himalaya backends
=================

``Himalaya`` can be used seamlessly with different backends.
The available backends are ``numpy`` (default), ``cupy``, and ``pytorch``.
To change the backend (e.g. to ``cupy``), call:

.. code-block:: python

    from himalaya.backend import set_backend
    backend = set_backend("cupy")


and give ``cupy`` arrays inputs to the ``himalaya`` solvers. For convenience,
estimators implementing ``scikit-learn``'s API can cast arrays to the correct
input type.

GPU acceleration
----------------

To run ``himalaya`` on a graphics processing unit (GPU), you can use both
``cupy`` or ``pytorch`` backends.

To use the ``cupy`` backend, call:

.. code-block:: python

    from himalaya.backend import set_backend
    backend = set_backend("cupy")

    data = backend.asarray(data)


To use the ``pytorch`` backend, call:

.. code-block:: python

    from himalaya.backend import set_backend
    backend = set_backend("torch_cuda")
    # "torch" uses pytorch on CPU, "torch_cuda" uses pytorch on GPU

    data = backend.asarray(data)


Installation
============

Dependencies
------------

``Himalaya`` requires:

- Python 3
- Numpy
- Scikit-learn
- PyTorch (optional GPU backend) (1.9+ preferred)
- Cupy (optional GPU backend)
- Matplotlib (optional, for visualization only)
- Pytest (optional, for testing only)


Standard installation
---------------------
You may install the latest version of ``himalaya`` using the package manager
``pip``, which will automatically download ``himalaya`` from the Python Package
Index (PyPI):

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install himalaya


Installation from source
------------------------

To install ``himalaya`` from the latest source (``main`` branch), you may
call:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install git+https://github.com/gallantlab/himalaya.git


Developers can also install ``himalaya`` in editable mode via:

.. code-block:: bash

    git clone https://github.com/gallantlab/himalaya
    cd himalaya
    pip install --editable .


.. |Github| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/github-himalaya-blue
   :target: https://github.com/gallantlab/himalaya

.. |Python| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.7%2B-blue
   :target: https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-370

.. |License| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-BSD%203--Clause-blue.svg
   :target: https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause


Cite this package
=================

If you use ``himalaya`` in your work, please cite our (future) publication:

.. [1] Dupré La Tour, T., Eickenberg, M., & Gallant, J. L. (2021).
	Feature-space selection with banded ridge regression. *In preparation*.
