doc/troubleshooting.rst, before:

Troubleshooting
===============
We detail here common issues encountered with ``himalaya``, and how to fix
them.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2


CUDA out of memory
------------------

The GPU memory is often smaller than the CPU memory, so it requires more
attention to avoid running out of memory. Himalaya implements a series of
options to limit the GPU memory, often at the cost of computational speed:

- Some solvers implement computations over batches, to limit the size of
  intermediate arrays. See for instance ``n_targets_batch``, or
  ``n_alphas_batch`` in :class:`himalaya.kernel_ridge.KernelRidgeCV`.
- Some solvers implement an option to keep the input kernels or the targets in
  CPU memory. See for instance ``Y_in_cpu`` in
  :class:`kernel_ridge.MultipleKernelRidgeCV`.
- Some estimators can also be forced to use CPU, ignoring the current backend,
  using the parameter ``force_cpu=True``. To limit GPU memory, some estimators
  in the same pipeline can use ``force_cpu=True`` and others
  ``force_cpu=False``. In particular, it is possible to precompute kernels on
  CPU, using :class:`kernel_ridge.Kernelizer` or
  :class:`kernel_ridge.ColumnKernelizer` with the parameter ``force_cpu=True``
  before fitting a :class:`himalaya.kernel_ridge.KernelRidgeCV` or a
  :class:`kernel_ridge.MultipleKernelRidgeCV` on GPU.

Slow ``check_array``
--------------------

In himalaya, the scikit-learn compatible estimators validate the input data,
checking the absence of NaN or infinite values. For large datasets, this check
can take significant computational time. To skip this check, simply call
``sklearn.set_config(assume_finite=True)`` before fitting your models.

Commit message:

DOC add note on pytorch < 1.9

doc/troubleshooting.rst, after:

Troubleshooting
===============
We detail here common issues encountered with ``himalaya``, and how to fix
them.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2


CUDA out of memory
------------------

The GPU memory is often smaller than the CPU memory, so it requires more
attention to avoid running out of memory. Himalaya implements a series of
options to limit the GPU memory, often at the cost of computational speed:

- Some solvers implement computations over batches, to limit the size of
  intermediate arrays. See for instance ``n_targets_batch``, or
  ``n_alphas_batch`` in :class:`himalaya.kernel_ridge.KernelRidgeCV`.
- Some solvers implement an option to keep the input kernels or the targets in
  CPU memory. See for instance ``Y_in_cpu`` in
  :class:`kernel_ridge.MultipleKernelRidgeCV`.
- Some estimators can also be forced to use CPU, ignoring the current backend,
  using the parameter ``force_cpu=True``. To limit GPU memory, some estimators
  in the same pipeline can use ``force_cpu=True`` and others
  ``force_cpu=False``. In particular, it is possible to precompute kernels on
  CPU, using :class:`kernel_ridge.Kernelizer` or
  :class:`kernel_ridge.ColumnKernelizer` with the parameter ``force_cpu=True``
  before fitting a :class:`himalaya.kernel_ridge.KernelRidgeCV` or a
  :class:`kernel_ridge.MultipleKernelRidgeCV` on GPU.

A CUDA out of memory issue can also arise with ``pytorch < 1.9``, for example
with :class:`himalaya.kernel_ridge.KernelRidge`, where a solver requires
ridiculously high peak memory during a broadcasting matmul operation. This
`issue <https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/pull/54616>`_ can be fixed by
updating to ``pytorch = 1.9`` or newer versions.


Slow ``check_array``
--------------------

In himalaya, the scikit-learn compatible estimators validate the input data,
checking the absence of NaN or infinite values. For large datasets, this check
can take significant computational time. To skip this check, simply call
``sklearn.set_config(assume_finite=True)`` before fitting your models.
